If you recall, breadth-first search is optimal because it
expands the shallowest unexplored node with every step.
However, BFS is limited to graphs where all step costs are equal.
This next algorithm, Uniform Cost Search builds upon
breadth-first search to be able to search graphs with differing edge costs.
Uniform Cost Search is also optimal because it
expands nodes in order of increasing path cost.
In certain environments, you can assign a cost to every edge.
The cost may represent one of many things.
For instance, the time it takes a robot to move from one node to another.
A robot may have to slow down to turn corners or to move across rough terrain.
The associated delay can be represented with a higher cost to that edge.
So far, every edge in our search tree has had the same cost.
So, let's add some costs to this tree.
Uniform Cost Search, explores nodes on
the frontier starting with the node that has the lowest path cost.
Path cost refers to the sum of all edge costs leading from the start to that node.
For instance, the path costs of this node, is just two.
But the path cost of this node is two plus three which is five.
If we start at the top of the search tree and explore the nodes,
they are explored in the following manner.
From the start node, we add two nodes to the frontier.
One has a cost of one and the other, a cost of two.
Next, we explore the node with the lower path cost, the left node.
This adds two more nodes to the frontier.
One with a path cost of three and one with a cost of two.
Now, we've explored all available nodes with a path cost of one.
So, next, let's look for nodes with a path cost of two and explore them.
There's one to the right and another one here.
We continue exploring the nodes on the frontier with the lowest path costs.
By now, we've explored all nodes with a path cost of one,
two, three, and four.
Now, if you are to expand a search to include all nodes with the path cost of five,
which of the following nodes currently on the frontier would not be explored?